I remember my first time reading a 10k.
My immediate impression was "wow",
this document is long and complicated.
These extra complication exists because companies are required by law to disclose
potential risks and problems in detail so that down the road,
they won't be liable for deceptive reporting.
The level of complexity of the texts might then
be related to potential risk factors for the company.
How do we quantify the complexity of a document?
One way to capture the complexity of a document is by calculating
readability indices that capture how easy a given text or document is for reading.
The readability indices are constructed based on two heuristic observations.
The first one, longer sentences tend to be less readable and the second one,
longer words tend to be less readable.
The length of words can be calculated by the number of
syllables or roughly the number of distinct sounds in each word.
With this observations in mind,
we can construct two common readability indices.
The first one, the Flesch-Kincaid Grade Index given by the equation here,
which combines the average length of sentences
and average syllable counts of all the words.
The second one, the Gunning-Fog Index that
combines the average length of sentences and the fraction of hard words,
where hard words are defined as words having three syllables or more.
These indices are constructed heuristically so that they roughly
corresponds to the education level required for reading the underlying document.
This readability metrics are commonly used by
researchers and educators to assess reading abilities.
For example, young adult novels like
the Harry Potter series will have an average grade level of about eight
to 10 while an academic paper in
theoretical Physics could easily have grade level beyond 16.
What about financial documents?
You will find out as you work through our exercises.